Helm broker authorization docs (#5426)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/helm-broker/03-03-create-addons-repo.md

    - url: "github.com/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml"
    # bitbucket.org URL with no prefix. It is automatically interpreted as a Git repository source.
    - url: "bitbucket.org/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml"

>     # Git SSH protocol with a reference to a secret containing base64 encoded SSH private key

Reviewer: u added that entry here but not for HTTP(s), let's make it symmetric. Add it in both places or remove it from both places

    - url: "git::ssh://git@github.com/kyma-project/private-addons.git//addons/index.yaml?sshkey={key}"
      secretRef:
        name: auth
        namespace: stage
```

  </details>
</div>

> ## Authorization

Reviewer: maybe we can mention somewhere that we have the general templating allowed in URL field. and basically, we are using that for handling the auth. but you can place there also the whole URL 
```
    # HTTPS protocol with basic authorization provided.
    - url: "{URL}"
      secretRef:
        name: auth
        namespace: stage 
```

I cannot find direct info that *key* used in url must match key in secret

```
https://admin:secretPassword@repository.addons.com/index.yaml
```

You can create a Secret resource which contains credentials and reference it in the repository URL definition using templating:

Create a Secret:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic auth -n stage --from-literal=username=admin --from-literal=password=secretPassword
```

Define a ClusterAddonsConfiguration:
```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    # HTTPS protocol with basic authorization provided.
    - url: "https://{username}:{password}@repository.addons.com/index.yaml"
      secretRef:
        name: auth
        namespace: stage     
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git SSH
  </summary>
  
  The Git SSH protocol requires an sshkey argument which must be base64 encoded SSH private key. You can find more about generating key pair for Github in the [document](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key).

>   Once you created the key pair (*id_rsa* and *id_rsa.pub*) encode the private one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Once you created the key pair encode the private one (*id_rsa*):
```
maybe sth like that? If you have (*id_rsa* and *id_rsa.pub*)  it's quite strange because you are referring to both of them but then use only one.

    - url: "bitbucket.org/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml"
```

  </details>
</div>

## Authorization

> The AddonsConfiguration and ClusterAddonsConfiguration custom resources allows you to define authorization as a part of the URL. For more details please read the [go-getter protocols](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter/blob/master/README.md#general-all-protocols) description.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AddonsConfiguration and ClusterAddonsConfiguration custom resources allow you to define authorization as part of the URL. For more details, read the [go-getter protocols](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter/blob/master/README.md#general-all-protocols) description.
```

> Using sensitive information, such as passwords, directly in the URL is not a good approach. This can be solved by putting such data in a Secret resource and taking advantage of templating. You can use placeholders which refer to keys in the Secret. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using sensitive information, such as passwords, directly in the URL is not a good approach. Avoid this by putting such data in a Secret resource and taking advantage of templating. Use placeholders which refer to keys in the Secret. For example:
```

> Using sensitive information, like a password, directly in the URL is a not good approach. This can be solved by putting such data in a Secret resource and take advantage of a templating. You can use placeholders which refers to keys in the Secret. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using sensitive information, such as passwords, directly in the URL is a not a good approach. This can be solved by putting such data in a Secret resource and taking advantage of templating. You can use placeholders which refer to keys in the Secret. For example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    - url: "https://{host}/{project}/addons/index.yaml"
      secretRef:
        name: data
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: data
type: Opaque
stringData:
  host: "github.com"
  project: "kyma-project/addons"       
```

> The URL will be resolved into: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The URL resolves into: 
```

> ```https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/addons/index.yaml```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/addons/index.yaml
```
```

The Helm Broker supports authorization using the following protocols:
 
<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  HTTP/HTTPS
  </summary> 
 

> You can prepend a section `username:password@` to the hostname in the URL to define basic authentication credentials. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To define basic authentication credentials prepend a section `username:password@` to the hostname in the URL . For example:
```

> You can prepend a section `username:password@` to the hostname in the URL to define basic authentication crdentials, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can prepend a section `username:password@` to the hostname in the URL to define basic authentication credentials. For example:
```

```
https://admin:secretPassword@repository.addons.com/index.yaml
```

> You can create a Secret resource which contains credentials, and reference it in the repository URL definition using templating:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Secret resource which contains credentials, and reference it in the repository URL definition using templating:
```

> You can create a Secret resource which contains credentials and reference it in the repository URL definition using templating:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a Secret resource which contains credentials, and reference it in the repository URL definition using templating:
```

Create a Secret:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic auth -n stage --from-literal=username=admin --from-literal=password=secretPassword
```

Define a ClusterAddonsConfiguration:
```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    # HTTPS protocol with basic authorization provided.
    - url: "https://{username}:{password}@repository.addons.com/index.yaml"
      secretRef:
        name: auth
        namespace: stage     
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git SSH
  </summary>
  

>   The Git SSH protocol requires an SSH key to authorize with your repository. Setting SSH keys differs among hosting providers. See [this document](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key) to read about the GitHub service. The private key must be base64 encoded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The Git SSH protocol requires an SSH key to authorize with your repository. Setting SSH keys differs among hosting providers. 
  > **NOTE**: See [this](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key) document to read about the GitHub service. 
  
  The private key must be base64 encoded.
```

>   The Git SSH protocol requires an SSH key to authorize with your repository. Setting SSH keys differs between hosting providers. See [this](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key) document to read about GitHub service. The private key must be base64 encoded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The Git SSH protocol requires an SSH key to authorize with your repository. Setting SSH keys differs among hosting providers. See [this document](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key) to read about the GitHub service. The private key must be base64 encoded.
```

You were right, it probably sounds better with `the`.

  
  To encode your private key, run this command:
  ```bash
    base64 -b -i {path_to_id_rsa} -o id_rsa-encoded
  ```
  
  > **NOTE:** Private SSH key should not be secured by a passphrase.

>   create a corresponding Secret resource:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Create a corresponding Secret resource:
```

  ```bash
  kubectl create secret generic auth -n stage --from-file=key=id_rsa-encoded
  ```

>   You can define an url with the required sshkey option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Define an url with the required sshkey option:
```

>   ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
```

    - url: "bitbucket.org/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml"
```

  </details>
</div>

## Authorization

The AddonsConfiguration and ClusterAddonsConfiguration custom resources allow you to define authorization as part of the URL. For more details, read the [go-getter protocols](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter/blob/master/README.md#general-all-protocols) description.
Using sensitive information, such as passwords, directly in the URL is not a good approach. Avoid this by putting such data in a Secret resource and taking advantage of templating. Use placeholders which refer to keys in the Secret. For example:
```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    - url: "https://{host}/{project}/addons/index.yaml"
      secretRef:
        name: data
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: data
type: Opaque
stringData:
  host: "github.com"
  project: "kyma-project/addons"       
```
The URL resolves into: 
```
https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/addons/index.yaml
```

> The Helm Broker supports authorization using the following protocols:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Helm Broker supports authorization using these:
```

```

Define a ClusterAddonsConfiguration:
```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    # HTTPS protocol with basic authorization provided.
    - url: "https://{username}:{password}@repository.addons.com/index.yaml"
      secretRef:
        name: auth
        namespace: stage     
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git SSH
  </summary>
  
  The Git SSH protocol requires an SSH key to authorize with your repository. Setting SSH keys differs among hosting providers. 
  > **NOTE**: See [this](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#generating-a-new-ssh-key) document to read about the GitHub service. 
  
  The private key must be base64 encoded.
  
  To encode your private key, run this command:
  ```bash
    base64 -b -i {path_to_id_rsa} -o id_rsa-encoded
  ```
  
  > **NOTE:** Private SSH key should not be secured by a passphrase.

  Create a corresponding Secret resource:
  ```bash
  kubectl create secret generic auth -n stage --from-file=key=id_rsa-encoded
  ```

>   Define an url with the required sshkey option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Define an url with the required sshkey option:
```
```suggestion
  Define a URL with the required sshkey option:
```
